hi I am Jeremy Howard from fast.ai and
this is a hacker's guide to language
models
when I say a hacker's guide what we're
going to be looking at is a code first
approach to understanding how to use
language models in practice
so before we get started we should
probably talk about what is a language
model
I would say that
this is going to make more sense if you
know the kind of basics of deep learning
if you don't I think you'll still get
plenty out of it and there'll be plenty
of things you can do but if you do have
a chance I would recommend checking out
course.fast.ai which is a free course
and specifically
um
if you could at least kind of watch if
not work through the first five lessons
that would get you to a point where you
understand all the basic fundamentals of
deep learning that will make this this
lesson tutorial make even more sense
maybe I shouldn't call this a tutorial
it's more of a quick run through so I've
got to try to run through all the basic
ideas of language models how to use them
both open source ones and open AI based
ones and it's all going to be based
using Code as much as possible
um so let's start by talking about what
a language model is and so as you might
have heard before a language model is
something that knows how to predict the
next word of a sentence or knows how to
fill in the missing words of a sentence
and we can look at an example of one
open AI has a language model text
DaVinci 003 and we can play with it by
passing in
some words and ask it to predict what
the next words might be so if we pass in
when I arrived back at the panda
breeding facility after the
extraordinary reign of live frogs I
couldn't believe what I saw I just came
up with that yesterday and I thought
what might happen next so kind of fun
for Creative brainstorming uh there's a
nice site called nat.dev
Nat dot let Dev lets us play with a
variety of language models and here I've
selected text DaVinci 003 and I'll hit
submit and it starts printing stuff out
the pandas were happily playing and
eating the frogs that had fallen from
the sky there's an amazing sight to see
these animals taking advantage of such a
unique opportunity
first after quick measures to ensure the
safety of the pandas and the frogs so
there you go that's what happened after
the extraordinary reign of live frogs at
the panda breeding facility uh you'll
see here that I've enabled show
probabilities which is a thing in
that.dev where it shows
um well let's take a look it's pretty
likely the next word here is going to be
the and after this since we're talking
about a panda breeding facility it's
going to be Panda's were and what were
they doing well they could have been
doing a few things they could have been
doing something happily
or the pandas were having the pandas
were out the pandas were playing so it
picked the most likely uh it thought it
was 20 likely it's going to be happily
and what were they happily doing
could have been playing
hopping
eating
and so forth
so they're eating the frogs that and
then had almost certainly so you can see
what it's doing at each point is it's
predicting the probability of a variety
of possible next words and depending on
how you set it up it will either pick
the most likely one every time
or you can change muck around with
things like P values and temperatures
to change what comes up so at each time
then it'll give us a different result
and this is kind of fun
frogs perched on the heads of some of
the pandas it was an amazing sight
etc etc
okay
so that's what a language model does
um
now you might notice
here it hasn't predicted pandas it's
predicted panned
and then separately
us
okay after Panda it's going to be us so
it's not always a whole word
here it's an
and then harmed
oh actually it's unha mood so you can
see that it's not always predicting
words specifically what it's doing is
predicting tokens uh tokens are either
whole words or sub word units pieces of
a word or it could even be punctuation
or numbers or so forth
um so let's have a look at how that
works so for example we can use the
actual
um it's called tokenization to create
tokens from us from a uh from a string
we can use the same tokenizer that GPT
uses by using tick token and we can
specifically say we want to use the same
tokenizer that that model text
eventually double O three uses and so
for example when I earlier tried this it
talked about the Frog splashing and so I
thought I'll include data we'll encode
they are splashing and the result is a
bunch of numbers
and what those numbers are they'd
basically just lookups into a vocabulary
that openai in this case created and if
you train your own models you'll be
automatically creating or your code will
create
and if I then decode those it says oh
these numbers are they
space r space spool
hashing
and so put that all together they are
splashing so you can see that
the start of a word is give me the space
before it is also being encoded here
so these um language models are quite
neat that they can work at all but
they're not of themselves really
designed to do anything
um uh let me explain
um the basic idea
of what chat GPT gpt4 Bard Etc are doing
comes from a paper
which describes an algorithm that I
created back in 2017 called ULM fit and
Sebastian Rooter and I wrote a paper up
describing the ULM fit approach which
was the one that basically laid out
what everybody's doing how this system
works and the system has three steps
step one is
language model training but you'll see
this is actually from the paper we
actually described it as pre-training
now what language model pre-training
does is this is the thing which predicts
the next word of a sentence and so in
the original ULM fit paper so the
algorithm I developed in 2017 then
Sebastian Rooter and I wrote it up in
2018 early 2018
what I originally did was I trained this
language model on Wikipedia now what
that meant is I took a neural network
um and a neural network is just a
function if you don't know what it is
it's just a mathematical function that's
extremely flexible and it's got lots and
lots of parameters and initially it
can't do anything but using stochastic
gradient descent or SGD you can teach it
to do almost anything if you give it
examples and so I gave it lots of
examples of sentences from Wikipedia so
for example from the Wikipedia article
for the birds the birds is a 1963
American Natural horror natural horror
Thriller film produced and directed by
Alfred and then it would stop
and so then the model would have to
guess what the next word is
and if it guest Hitchcock it would be
rewarded and if it gets guessed
something else it would be penalized and
effectively basically it's trying to
maximize those rewards it's trying to
find a set of weights for this function
that makes it more likely that it would
predict Hitchcock and then later on in
this article it reads from Wikipedia at
a previously dated Mitch but ended it
due to Mitch's cold overbearing mother
Lydia who dislikes any woman in mitches
now you can see that filling this in
actually requires being pretty
thoughtful because there's a bunch of
things that like kind of logically could
go there like a woman could be in
Mitch's
closet could be in which is house
and so you know you could probably guess
in the Wikipedia article describing the
plot of the birds it's actually any
woman in Mitch's life
now
to do a good job
of solving this problem as well as
possible of guessing the next word of
sentences
the neural network
is gonna have to learn a lot of stuff
about the world it's going to learn
that there are things called objects
that there's a thing called time that
objects react to each other over time
that there are things called movies that
movies have directors that there are
people that people have names and so
forth and that a movie director is
Alfred Hitchcock and he directed horror
films and
um
so on and so forth it's going to have to
learn extraordinary amount if it's going
to do a really good job of predicting
the next word of sentences
now these neural networks specifically
are deep neural networks so this is deep
learning and in these deep neural
networks which have
um when when I created this I think it
had like 100 million parameters nowadays
they have billions of parameters
um
it's got the ability to create a rich
hierarchy of abstractions and
representations which it can build on
and so this is really the the key idea
behind
neural networks and language models is
that if it's going to do a good job of
being able to predict the next word of
any sentence in any situation it's going
to have to know an awful lot about the
world it's going to have to know about
how to solve math questions or figure
out the next move in a chess game or
recognize poetry and so on and so forth
now
nobody said it's going to do a good job
of that
so it's a lot of work to find to create
and train a model that is good at that
but if you can create one that's good at
that it's going to have a lot of
capabilities internally that it would
have to be a drawing on to be able to do
this effectively so the key idea here
for me is that this is a form of
compression and this idea of the
relationship between compression and
intelligence goes back many many decades
and the basic idea is that yeah if you
can
guess what words are coming up next then
effectively you're compressing all that
information down into a neural network
um now I said this is not useful of
itself well why do we do it well we do
it because we want to pull out those
capabilities and the way we pull out
those capabilities is we take two more
steps the second step is we do something
called language model fine tuning
a language model fine tuning we are no
longer just giving it all of Wikipedia
or nowadays we don't just give it all of
Wikipedia
but in fact
a large chunk of the internet is fed to
pre-training these models in the fine
tuning stage
we feed it a set of documents a lot
closer to the final task that we want
the model to do
but it's still the same basic idea it's
still trying to predict the next word of
a sentence
after that we then do a final classifier
fine tuning and then the classifier
fine-tuning this is this is the kind of
end task we're trying to get it to do
now nowadays these two steps are very
specific approaches are taken for the
step two the step B the language model
fine tuning
people nowadays do a particular kind
called instruction tuning the idea is
that the task we want most of the time
to achieve is
solve problems answer questions and so
in the instruction tuning phase we use
data sets like this one this is a great
data set called openalker created by a
fantastic open source group and and it's
built on top of something called the
flan collection
and you can see that basically
there's all kinds of different questions
in here so this four gigabytes of
of questions and context and so forth
and each one generally has a question or
an instruction or a request and then a
response
here are some examples of instructions I
think this is from the flan data set if
I remember correctly so for instance it
could be does the sentence in the Iron
Age answer the question the period of
time from 1200 to 1000 BCE is known as
what choice is one yes or no and then
the language model is meant to write one
or two as appropriate for yes or no
or it could be uh things about I think
this is from a music video who is the
girl in more than you know answer and
then it would have to write the correct
name of the remember model or dancer or
whatever from um from that music video
and so forth so it's still doing
language modeling so fine-tuning and
pre-training are kind of the same thing
but this is more targeted now not just
to be able to fill in the missing parts
of any document from the internet
um but to fill in the words necessary to
to answer questions to do useful things
okay so that's instruction tuning
and then step three which is the
classifier fine tuning nowadays there's
generally various approaches such as
reinforcement learning from Human
feedback and others which are basically
giving humans or sometimes more advanced
models
multiple answers to a question such as
here are some from a reinforcement
lighting from Human feedback paper I
can't remember which one I got it from
list five ideas for how to regain
enthusiasm for my career and so the
model will spit out two possible answers
or it'll have a less good model and a
more good model and then a human or a
better model will pick which is best
and so that's used for the the final
fine tuning Stitch
so all of that is to say
um
although you can download pure language
models from the internet
um they're not generally that useful of
their on their own until you've
fine-tuned them now you don't
necessarily need step C nowadays
actually people are discovering that
maybe just step B might be enough it's
still a bit controversial
Okay so
when we talk about a language bottle
um where we could be talking about
something that's just been pre-trained
something that's been fine-tuned or
something that's gone through something
like rlhf all of those things are
generally described nowadays as language
models
so my view my view is that if you are
going to be
good at language modeling in any way
then you need to start by being a really
effective user of language models and to
be a really effective user of language
models you've got to use the best one
that there is and currently so what are
we up to September 2023 the best one is
by far gpt4 this might change sometime
in the not too distant future but this
is right now gpt4 is the recommendation
strong strong recommendation now you can
use GPT for
by paying 20 bucks a month to open Ai
and then you can use it a whole lot it's
very hard to
to run out of credits I find
now what can GPT do
it's interesting and instructive in my
opinion to start with the very common
views you see on the internet or even in
Academia about what it can't do so for
example there was this paper you might
have seen GPT for can't reason
which describes a number of uh empirical
analysis done of 25 diverse reasoning
problems and found it that it
was not able to solve them and it's
utterly incapable of reasoning so
I always find you've got to be a bit
careful about reading stuff like this
because I just talked the first three
that I came across in that paper and I
gave them to gpt4
um and by the way something very useful
in gpt4 is you can click on the the
share button and you'll get something
that looks like this and this is really
handy so here's an example of something
from the paper that said gpt4 can't do
this Mabel's heart rate at 9 00 am was
75 beats per minute her blood pressure
at 7 pm was 120 over 80. she died 11 p.m
while she arrive at noon so of course
you're human we know obviously she must
be
and GPT forces Hmm this appears to be a
riddle not a real inquiry into medical
conditions uh here's a summary of the
information and yeah
it sounds like Mabel was alive at noon
so that's correct uh this was the second
one I tried from the paper that says
gpt4 can't do this and I found actually
gpt4 can do this
um and it said that gpt4 can't do this
and I found gpt4 can do this now
um I mentioned this to say gpt4 is
probably a lot better than you would
expect if you've read all this um stuff
on the internet about all the dumb
things that it does
um
almost every time I see on the internet
saying something something that GPT 4
can't do I check it and it turns out it
does this one was just last week
Sally a girl has three brothers each
brother has two sisters how many sisters
does Sally have
so have a think about it
and so gpt4 says okay
Sally's counted as one system each of
her brothers
if each brother has two sisters
that means there's another sister in the
picture apart from salary so Sally has
one sister okay correct
um
and then this one I got sort of like
three or four days ago
this is a common view that language
models can't
track things like this see is the riddle
I'm in my house on top of my chair in
the living room is a coffee cup inside
the coffee cup is a thimble inside the
thimble is a diamond
I moved the chair to the bedroom I put
the coffee cup on the bed I turned the
cup upside down then I return it upside
up Place The Coffee Cup on the counter
in the kitchen where's my diamond
and so gpt4 says yeah okay you turned it
upside down so probably the diamond fell
out
so therefore the diamond is in the
bedroom where it fell out okay correct
um
why is it that people are claiming that
gpt4 can't do these things we can well
the reason is because I think on the
whole they are not aware of how gpt4 was
trained
gpt4
was not trained at any point to give
correct answers
gpt4 was trained initially to give most
likely next words and there's an awful
lot of stuff on the internet where the
most rare documents are not describing
things that are true there could be
fiction there could be jokes there could
be just stupid people don't saying dumb
stuff
so this first stage does not necessarily
give you correct answers the second
stage with the instruction tuning uh
also like it's it's
it's trying to give correct answers but
part of the problem is that then in the
stage where you start asking people
which answer do they like better
people tended to say in these uh in
these things that they prefer more
confident answers and they often were
not people who were trained well enough
to recognize wrong answers
so there's lots of reasons that the that
the you know SGD weight updates from
this process for stuff like gpt4 don't
particularly or don't entirely reward
correct answers
but you can help it want to give you
correct answers if you think about
the LM pre-training what are the kinds
of things in a document that would
suggest oh this is going to be high
quality information and so you can
actually Prime
gpt4 to give you high quality
information by giving it custom
instructions
and what this does is this is basically
text that is prepended to all of your
queries
and so you say like oh you're brilliant
at reasoning so like okay that's
obviously or to prime it to give good
answers
um
and then try to work against the fact
that
um the the rlhf uh folks uh preferred
confidence just tell it no tell me if
there might not be a correct answer
also the way that the text is generated
is it literally generates the next word
and then it puts all that whole lot back
into the bottle and generates the next
next word puts that all back in the
model generates the next next word and
so forth
that means the more words it generates
the more computation it can do and so I
literally I tell it that
right and so I say first spend a few
sentences explaining background context
Etc
so this uh custom instruction
um allows it to solve more challenging
problems
and you can see the difference
here's what it looks like for example if
I say how do I get a count of rows
grouped by value in pandas
and it just gives me a whole lot of
information which is actually it
thinking so I just skip over it and then
it gives me the answer
and actually in my uh
um
custom instructions I actually say if
the request begins with VV
actually make it as concise as possible
and so it kind of goes into brief mode
and here's brief mode how do I get the
group this is the same thing but with VV
at the start
and it just spits it out now in this
case it's a really simple question so I
didn't need time to think
so hopefully that gives you a sense of
how to get language models to give
good answers
you have to help them and if you if it's
not working it might be user error
basically but having said that there's
plenty of stuff that language models
like gpt4 can't do
one thing to think carefully about is
does it know about itself can you ask it
what is your context length how were you
trained what Transformer architecture
are you based on
any one of these stages
did it have the opportunity to learn any
of those things
well obviously not at the pre-training
stage nothing on the internet
existed during GPT 4's training saying
how gpt4 was trained
right uh probably Ditto in the
instruction tuning probably Ditto in the
rlhf so in general you can't ask for
example a language model about itself
now again because of the rlhf it'll want
to make you happy by giving your
opinionated answers so it'll just spit
out the most likely thing it thinks with
great confidence
this is just a general kind of
hallucination right so hallucinations is
just this idea that the language model
wants to complete the sentence and it
wants to do it in an opinionated way
that's likely to make people happy
um
it doesn't know anything about URLs it
really hasn't seen many at all I think a
lot of them if not all of them pretty
much were stripped out so if you ask it
anything about like what's at this
webpage again it'll generally just make
it up
um and it doesn't know at least gpt4
doesn't know anything after September
um because the
um information it was pre-trained on was
from
that time period September 2021 and
before called the knowledge cut off
so here's some things it can't do
um
Steve Newman sent me this good example
of something that it can't do
um
here is a logic puzzle I need to carry a
cabbage a goat and a wolf across a river
I can only carry one item at a time I
can't leave the goat with a cabbage I
can't leave the cabbage with the wolf
how do I get everything across to the
other side
now the problem is this looks a lot like
something called the classic River
Crossing puzzle
so classic in fact that it has a whole
Wikipedia page
about it
and in the classic puzzle
the wolf would eat the goat
or the goat would eat the cabbage
now
in
in Steve's version he changed it
the goat would eat the cabbage and the
Wolf would eat the cabbage but the wolf
won't eat the goat
so what happens well very interestingly
gpt4 here is entirely overwhelmed by the
language model training it's seen this
puzzle so many times it knows what word
comes next
so it says oh yeah I take the goat
across the road across the river and
leave it on the other side leaving the
wolf with a cabbage but we're just told
you can't leave the wolf with a cabbage
so it gets it wrong
now the thing is though you can
encourage gpt4 or any of these language
models to try again so during the
instruction tuning an R lhf they're
actually fine-tuned with multi-stage
conversations so you can give it a
multi-stage conversation repeat back to
me the constraints I listed what
happened after Step One is a constraint
violated
oh yeah yeah yeah I made a mistake okay
my new attempt instead of taking the
goat across the river and leaving it on
the other side is I'll take the code
across the river and leave from the
other side
it's done the same thing
um oh yeah I did do the same thing okay
I'll take the wolf across well now the
goats with the Cabbage that still
doesn't work oh yeah that didn't work
out
uh sorry about that instead of taking
the goat across the other side I'll take
the goat across the other side okay
what's going on here right this is
terrible
well one of the problems here is that
not only is
on the Internet it's so common to see
this particular goat puzzle that it's so
confident it knows what the next word is
also on the internet when you see stuff
which is stupid on a web page it's
really likely to be followed up with
more stuff that is stupid
once gpt4
starts being wrong
it tends to be more and more wrong it's
very hard to turn it around to start it
making it be right
so you actually have to go back and
there's actually a an edit button
on these chats
um
and so what you generally want to do is
if it's made a mistake is don't say oh
here's more information to help you fix
it but instead go back and click the
edit
and change it here
and so this time it's not going to get
confused
so in this case actually fixing Steve's
example
takes quite a lot of effort but I think
I've managed to get it to work
eventually and I actually said oh
sometimes people read things too quickly
they don't notice things it can trick
them up then they apply some pattern get
the wrong answer you do the same thing
by the way so I'm going to trick you
so before you about to get tricked make
sure you don't get tricked here's the
tricky puzzle
and then also with my custom
instructions it takes time
discussing it
and this time it gets it correct it
takes the Cabbage across first so it
took a lot of effort to get to a point
where it could actually solve this
because yeah when it's you know for
things where
it's been primed to answer a certain way
again and again and again it's very hard
for it to not do that
okay now uh something else super helpful
that you can use is what they call
Advanced Data analysis
in Advanced Data analysis you can ask it
to basically write code for you
and we're going to look at how to
implement this from scratch ourself
quite soon but first of all let's learn
how to use it so I was trying to build
something that split uh into markdown
headings a document on third level
markdown headings so that's uh three
hashes at the start of a line
and I was doing it on the whole of
Wikipedia so using regular Expressions
was really slow so I said oh I want to
speed this up
and it said okay here's some code
which is great because then I can say
Okay test it and include edge cases
and so it then
puts in the code creates extra cases
tests it
says yep it's working
it's not I notice it's actually removing
the carriage return at the end of each
sentence so I said I'll fix that
and update your tests
so it said okay
so now it's changed the test update the
test cases surround them and oh it's not
working
so it says oh yeah
fix the issue in the test cases
nope they didn't work
and you can see it's quite clever the
way it's trying to fix it by looking at
the results and but as you can see it's
not
every one of these is another attempt
another attempt another attempt until
eventually I gave up waiting and it's so
funny each time it's like debating again
okay this time I gotta handle it
properly and I gave up at the point
where it's like oh one more attempt
so I didn't solve it
um interestingly enough and
you know I I again it's it it's there's
some limits to the amount of kind of
logic that it can do this is really a
very simple question I asked it to do
for me and so hopefully you can see you
can't expect
even GPT for code interpreter or
Advanced Data analysis is now called to
make it so you don't have to write code
anymore you know it's not a substitute
for having programmers
um
um so
but again you know it it can often do a
lot as I'll show you in a moment so for
example actually
um OCR uh like this is something I
thought was really cool
um you can just paste and um sorry
pastry upload so jpt4 you can upload
um an image
um
Advanced Data analysis yeah you can
upload an image here
um
and then um I wanted to basically grab
some text out of an image somebody had
got a screenshot of their screen and I
wanted to edit which is something saying
oh uh this language model can't do this
and I wanted to try it as well so rather
than retyping it I just uploaded that
image my screenshot and said can you
extract the text from this image
and it said oh yeah I could do that I
could use OCR
um and like so it literally wrote at OCR
script
and
there it is just took a few seconds so
the difference here is it didn't really
require it to think of much logic it
could just use a very very familiar
pattern that it would have seen many
times
so this is generally where I find
language models Excel is where it
doesn't have to think too far outside
the box I mean it's great on kind of
creativity tasks but for like reasoning
and logic tasks that are outside the box
I find it not great but yeah it's great
at doing code for a whole wide variety
of different libraries and languages
having said that by the way
Google also has
a language model called bad it's way
less good than gpd4 most of the time but
there is a nice thing that you can
literally paste
an image straight into the prompt and I
just typed OCR this and it didn't even
have to go through code interpreter or
whatever it just said oh sure I've done
it and
there's the result of the OCR
and then it even commented I thought it
just does yard which I thought was cute
and oh even more interestingly it even
figured out where the OCR text came from
and gave me a link to it
um that I thought that was pretty cool
okay so
there's an example of it doing well I'll
show you one for this talk I found
really helpful I wanted to show you guys
how much it cost to use the open AI API
um but unfortunately when I went to the
open AI webpage
it was like all over the place the
pricing information was on all Separate
Tables and it was kind of a bit of a
mess
so I wanted to create a table with all
of the information combined like this
um and here's how I did it
I went to the open AI page
I hit Apple a to select all
and then I said in chat jpt create a
table with the pricing information Rose
no summarization no information not in
this page every row should appear as a
separate Row in your output and I hit
paste
now that was not very helpful to it
because hitting paste it's got the nav
bar it's got
uh
lots of extra information at the bottom
it's got all of its uh footer
Etc
um but it's really good at this stuff it
did it first time so there was the
markdown table so I copied and pasted
that into Jupiter and I got my markdown
table and so now you can see at a glance
the cost of gpt4 3.5 Etc but then what I
really wanted to do was show you that is
a picture
so I just said oh chart the input Row
from this table and just paste to the
table back
um
and it did
so that's pretty amazing now so let's
talk about this um pricing so so far
we've used chat GPT which costs 20 bucks
a month and there's no like per token
cost or anything but if you want to use
the API from python or whatever you have
to pay per token which is approximately
per word maybe it's about uh
one and a third tokens per word on
average
unfortunately in the chart it did not
include these headers gpt4 GPT 3.5 so
these first two ones are gpt4
and these two are GPT 3.5 so you can see
the GPT 3.5 is way way cheaper
um and you can see it here it's 0.03
versus 0.0015
so
it's so cheap you can really play around
with it and not worry and I want to give
you a sense of what that looks like
Okay so
why would you use the open AI API rather
than chat GPT
because you can do it programmatically
so you can
you know you can analyze data sets you
can do repetitive stuff
it's kind of like a different way of
programming you know it's it's things
that you can think of describing
but let's just look at the most simple
example of what that looks like so if
your pip install open AI
then you can import check and chat
completion and then you can say Okay
chat completion.create using GPT 3.5
Turbo
and then you can pass in a system
message this is basically the same as
custom instructions so okay you're an
Aussie llm that uses Aussie slang and
analogies wherever possible
okay and so you can see I'm passing in
an array here of messages so the first
is the system message and then the user
message
which is what is money
okay so GPT 3.5 returns a big embedded
dictionary
um and the message content is well my
money is like the oil that keeps the
Machinery of our economy running
smoothly
there you go just like a koala loves its
eucalyptus leaves we humans can't
survive without this stuff
so there's the Aussie llm's view of what
is money
so
the really uh the main ones I pretty
much always use are gpt4 and GPT 3.5
gpd4 is just so so much better at
anything remotely
challenging but obviously it's much more
expensive so rule of thumb you know
maybe try 3.5 turbo first
see how it goes if you're happy with the
results then great if you're not
planning out for the more expensive one
okay so I just created a little function
here called response that will print out
um
this nested thing
and so now oh and so then the other
thing to point out here is that the
result of this also has a usage field
which contains how many tokens was it
so it's about 150 tokens
so at point zero zero two
dollars per thousand tokens
for 150 tokens
means we just paid
.03 cents point zero zero zero three
dollars uh to get that done so as you
can see the cost is insignificant if we
were using gpt4 it would be 0.03 per
thousand
so it would be
half a cent
um
so unless you're doing
many thousands of gpt4 you're not going
to be even up into the dollars and GPT
3.5 even more than that
but you know keep an eye on it open AI
has a usage page and you can track your
usage
now
happens when we are this is really
important to understand
when we have a follow-up
in the same conversation
how does that work
so we just asked what goat means so for
example Michael Jordan is often referred
to as
the goat for his exceptional skills and
accomplishments
and Elvis and The Beatles referred to as
goat due to their profound influence and
achievement
so I could say
what
profound influence and achievements are
you referring to
okay well I meant Elvis Presley and the
Beatles did all these things now how
does that work how does this follow-up
work well what happens is the entire
conversation is passed back
and so we can actually do that here so
here is the same
system prompt here is the same question
right and then the answer comes back
with role assistant and I'm going to do
something pretty cheeky
I'm going to pretend
that it didn't say
money is like oil I'm going to say oh
you actually said money is like
kangaroos
I thought what it's going to do okay so
you can like literally invent a
conversation in which the language model
said something different because this is
actually how it's done in a multi-stage
conversation there's no state
right there's nothing stored on the
server you're passing back the entire
conversation again and telling it what
it told you
right so I'm going to tell it it's it
told me that money is like kangaroos and
then I'll ask the user oh really in what
way and this is kind of cool because you
can like see how it convinces you of of
something I just invented oh let me
break it down for you cover it just like
kangaroos hop around and carry their
Joeys in their pouch money is a means of
carrying value around so there you go
it's uh make your own analogy
cool so I'll create a little function
here that just puts these things
together for us just a message if there
is one the user message and returns
they're completion
and so now we can ask it what's the
meaning of life
passing in the Aussie system prompt
the meaning of life is like trying to
catch a wave on a sunny day at Bondi
Beach okay there you go so
um what do you need to be aware of
um well as I said one thing is keep an
eye on your usage if you're doing it you
know hundreds or thousands of times in a
loop keep an eye on not spending too
much money but also if you're doing it
too fast particularly the first day or
two you've got an account you're likely
to hit the limits for the API and so the
limits initially are pretty low
as you can see three requests per minute
um
so that's for free users page users
First 48 hours and after that it starts
going up and you can always ask for more
I just mentioned this because you're
going to want to have a function that
keeps an eye on that and so what I did
is I actually just went to Bing which
has a somewhat crappy version of gpt4
nowadays but it can still do basic stuff
for free and I said please show me
python code to call the open AI API
and handle rate limits
and it wrote this code
it's got to try
checks for rate limit errors
grabs the retry after
sleeps for that long and calls itself
and so now we can use that to ask for
example what's the world's funniest joke
and
there we go is the world's funniest
trick
so there's like the basic stuff you need
to get started using the open AI
llms
um and uh
and yeah I'd definitely suggest spending
plenty of time
with that so that you feel like you're
really a llm
using
expert
so what else can we do
well let's create our own code
interpreter that runs inside Jupiter
and so to do this we're going to take
advantage of a really Nifty thing
called function calling which is
provided by the open AI API and in
function calling when we call our ask
GPT function
which is this little one here
we had room to pass in some keyword
arguments that will be just passed along
to chat completion.create
and one of those keyword arguments you
can pass is
functions
what on Earth is that functions tells
open AI
about
tools that you have about functions that
you have so for example I created a
really simple function called sums
and it adds
two things
in fact it adds two it's
um and I'm going to pass that function
to
chatcompletion.create
now you can't pass a python function
directly you actually have to pass
What's called the Json schema so you
have to pass the schema for the function
so I created this Nifty little function
that you're welcome to borrow
which uses pedantic
and also Python's inspect module to
automatically take a python function and
return
the schema for it and so this is
actually what's going to get passed to
open AI so it's going to know that
there's a function called sums it's
going to know what it does
and it's going to know what parameters
it takes
what the defaults are and what's
required
so this is like when I first heard about
this I found this a bit mind-bending
because this is so different to how we
normally program computers where the key
thing for programming the computer
here actually is the doc string this is
the thing that gpt4 will look at and say
oh what does this function do so it's
critical that this describes exactly
what the function does
and so if I then say
um
what is six plus three
right and I just I really wanted to make
sure it actually did it here so I gave
it lots of prompts to say because
obviously it knows how to do it itself
without calling sums so it'll only use
your functions if it feels it needs to
which is a weird concept I mean I guess
feels is not a great word to use but you
kind of have to anthropomorphize these
things a little bit because they don't
behave like normal computer programs
um so if I if I ask GPT what is six plus
three and tell it that there's a
function called sums then it does not
actually return the number nine
instead it returns something saying
please call a function
call this function and pass it these
arguments so if I print it out there's
the arguments
so I created a little function called
core function and it goes into the
result of open AI grabs the function
call
checks that the name is something that
it's allowed to do
grabs it from the global system table
and calls it
passing in the parameters
and so if I now say okay call the
function that
we got back
we finally get
nine
so
this is a very simple example it's not
really doing anything that useful but
what we could do now is we can create a
much more powerful function
called
python
and the python function
executes
code
using python
and Returns the result
now of course I didn't want my computer
to run arbitrary python code that gpt4
told it to without checking so I just
got it to check first so say oh you're
sure you want to do this
um
so now
I can say
ask GPT what is 12 factorial
system prompt you can use Python for any
required computations and say okay
here's a function you've got available
it's the python function
so if I now call this
it will pass me back again
a completion object and here it's going
to say okay I want you to call python
passing in
this argument
and when I do it's going to go import
math result equals blur and then return
result do I want to do that yes I do
and there it is
now there's one more step which we can
optionally do I mean we've got the
answer we wanted but often we want the
answer in more of a chat format and so
the way to do that is to again repeat
everything that you've passed into so
far
but then instead of adding in
an assistant role response we have to
provide a function role response and
simply
put in here the result we got back from
the function
and if we do that
we now get
the prose response 12 factorial is equal
to
470 and a million 1 600.
now
functions
like python you can still ask it about
non-python things
and it just ignores it if you don't need
it right so you can have a whole bunch
of functions available that you've built
to do whatever you need for the stuff
which
um
the language model isn't familiar with
and it'll still
solve whatever it can on its own and use
your tools use your functions where
possible
okay so we have built our own
code interpreter from scratch I think
that's pretty amazing
so that is
um what you can do with or some of the
stuff you can do with open AI
um what about stuff that you can do on
your own computer
well to use a language model on your own
computer you're going to need to use
a GPU
um so I guess the first thing to think
about is like
do you want this does it make sense to
do stuff on your own computer what are
the benefits
um
there are not any open source models
that are as good yet as gpt4
and I would have to say also like
actually open ai's pricing's really
pretty good so it's it's not immediately
obvious that you definitely want to kind
of go in-house but there's lots of
reasons you might want to and we'll look
at some examples of them today
one example you might want to go
in-house is that you want to be able to
ask questions about your proprietary
documents or about information after
September 2021 the the knowledge cut off
or you might want to create your own
model that's particularly good at
solving the kinds of problems that you
need to solve using fine tuning and
these are all things that you absolutely
can get better than GPT for performance
at work or at home without too much
without too much money or travel so
these are the situations in which you
might want to go down this path and so
you don't necessarily have to buy a GPU
on kaggle they will give you a notebook
with two
quite old gpus attached
and very little Ram but it's something
or you can use collab and on collab you
can get much better gpus than kaggle has
and more RAM particularly if you pay a
monthly subscription fee
um
so those are some options for free or
low cost
you can also of course
you know go to one of the many kind of
GPU server providers and they change all
the time is to kind of what's what's
good or what's not run pod is one
example
and you can see you know if you want the
biggest and best machine you're talking
34 an hour so it gets pretty expensive
but you can certainly get things a lot
cheaper
80 cents an hour
um Lambda Labs is often pretty good
um you know it's really hard at the
moment to actually find
um
let's see pricing to actually find
people that have them available so
they've got lots listed here but they
often have nine or very few available
um there's also something pretty
interesting called Fast AI
which basically lets you use
um
other people's
computers when they're not using them
and as you can see
you know they tend to be much cheaper
than other folks
and they they tend to have better
availability as well but of course for
sensitive stuff you don't want to be
running it on some randos computer so
anyway so there's a few options for
renting stuff
um you know I think it's if you can it's
worth buying something and definitely
the one to buy at the moment is the GTX
3090 used
you can generally get them from eBay for
like 700 bucks or so
um a 40 90 isn't really better for
language models even though it's a newer
GPU the reason for that is that language
models are all about memory speed how
quickly can you get in and stuff in and
out of memory rather than how fast is
the processor and that hasn't really
improved a whole lot
so the two thousand bucks hmm the other
thing as well as memory speed is memory
size
24 gigs it doesn't quite cut it for a
lot of things so you'd probably want to
get two of these gpus so you're talking
like fifteen hundred dollars or so
um or you can get a 48 gig ram GPU it's
called an a6000 but this is going to
cost you more like five grand
so again getting two of these is going
to be a better deal and this is not
going to be faster than these either
um
or funnily enough you could just get a
Mac with a lot of ram particularly if
you get an M2 Ultra
Max have
um
particularly the M2 Ultra has pretty
fast memory it's still going to be way
slower than using an Nvidia card but
it's going to be like you're going to be
able to get you know like I think 192
gig or something
um
so
it's not a terrible option particularly
if you're not training models you're
just wanting to use other existing
trained models
um
so anyway most people who do this stuff
seriously almost everybody
has in video cards
um
so then what we're going to be using is
a library called Transformers from
hugging face and the reason for that is
that basically people upload
lots of pre-trained models or
firetrained models up to the hugging
face Hub and in fact there's even a
leaderboard where you can see which are
the best models
now this is a really uh
fraud area so at the moment this one is
meant to be the best model it has the
highest average score
and maybe it is good I haven't actually
used this particular model
um or maybe it's not I actually have no
idea because the problem is
these metrics are not particularly well
aligned with real life usage
um
for all kinds of reasons and also
sometimes you get something called
leakage which means that sometimes some
of the questions from these things
actually leaks through to some of the
training sets
so you can get as a rule of thumb what
to use from here but you should always
try things
um
and you can also say you know these ones
are all the 70b here that tells you how
big it is so this is a 70 billion
parameter model
um
so generally speaking for the kinds of
gpus you we're talking about you'll be
wanting no bigger than 13B and quite
often 7B
um
so
let's see if we've confined here the 13B
model for example
um all right so you can find models to
try out from things like this
leaderboard
um and there's also a really great
leaderboard called fast eval which I
like a lot because it focuses on some
more sophisticated evaluation methods
such as this Chain of Thought evaluation
method so I kind of trust these a little
bit more and these are also GSM 8K is a
difficult math benchmark
uh big bench hard
um so forth so yeah so you know stable
Beluga 2 Wizard math 13B dolphin Lima
13B et cetera these would all be good
options
um yeah so you need to pick a model and
at the moment nearly all the good models
are based on metas
llama too so when I say based on what
does that mean well what that means is
this model here llama 2 7B so it's a
llama model that's that's just the name
meta called it this is their version two
of llama this is their seven billion
size one it's the smallest one that they
make and specifically these weights have
been created for hugging face so you can
load it with the hugging face
Transformers
and this model has only got As far as
here it's done the language model of
pre-trading it's done none of the
instruction tuning and none of the rlhf
um
so we would need to fine tune it to
really get it to do much useful
so we can just say Okay create a
automatically create the appropriate
model
for language models so cause or LM is
basically refers to that ULM fit stage
one process
or stage two in fact so we've got the
pre-trained model from this name metal
alarm element two blah blah okay
now
um
generally speaking we use
16-bit floating Point numbers nowadays
but if you think about it
16 bit is two bytes so 7B times two it's
going to be 14 gigabytes
just to load in the weights so you've
got to have a decent model to be able to
do that
perhaps surprisingly you can actually
just cast it to 8-bit and it still works
pretty well thanks to something called
discretization
so let's try that so remember this is
just a language model looking only
complete sentences we can't ask it a
question and expect a great answer so
let's just give it the start of a
sentence Jeremy how it is a
and so we need the right tokenizer so
this will automatically create the right
kind of tokenizer for this model
we can grab the tokens as Pi torch
here they are
and
just to confirm if we decode them back
again we get back the original plus a
special token to say this is the start
of a document
and so we can now call generate so
generate
will
um Auto regressively so call the model
again and again passing its previous
result back as the next
as the next input
and I'm just going to do that 15 times
so this is you can you can write this
for Loop yourself this isn't doing
anything fancy in fact I would recommend
writing this yourself to make sure that
you know how that it all works okay
um
we have to put those tokens on the GPU
and at the end I recommend putting them
back onto the CPU the result and here
are the tokens
not very interesting so we have to
decode them using the tokenizer and so
the first 25 sorry first 15 tokens are
Jeremy Howard is a 28 year old
Australian AI researcher and
entrepreneur okay well 28 years old is
not exactly correct but we'll call it
close enough I like that thank you very
much
llama 7B So Okay so we've got a language
model completing sentences
it took
one in the third seconds
and that's a bit slower than it could be
because we used 8-bit
if we use 16 bit there's a special thing
called B float 16 which is a really
great 16-bit floating Point format
that's used usable on any somewhat
recent GPS Nvidia GPU now if we use it
it's going to take twice as much RAM as
we discussed
but look at the time
it's come down to 390 milliseconds
um
now there is a better option still than
even that
there's a different kind of
discretization called gptq
where a model is carefully optimized to
work with uh four or eight or other you
know lower Precision data automatically
and
um
this particular person known as the
bloke is fantastic at taking popular
models running that optimization process
and then uploading the results back to
hacking face
so we can use this gptq version
and internally this is actually going to
use I'm not sure exactly how many bits
this particular one is I think it's
probably going to be four bits
but it's going to be much more optimized
um and so look at this 270 milliseconds
it's actually faster
than
16 bit even though internally it's
actually casting it up to 16 bit each
layer to do it
and that's because there's a lot less
memory moving around
and to confirm
in fact what we could even do now is we
go up to 13B easy and in fact it's still
faster than the 7B now that we're using
the gptq version so this is a really
helpful tip
so let's put all those things together
the tokenizer the generate the batch
decode we'll call this gen for Generate
and so we can now use the 13B GPT key
model
and let's try this Jeremy Howard is a so
it's got to 50 tokens so fast 16-year
veteran of Silicon Valley co-founder of
cargo a Marketplace or predictive model
here's company kaggle.com has become the
data science competitions what I don't
know I was going to say but anyway it's
on the right track I was actually there
for 10 years not 16 but that's all right
um
okay so this is looking good
but probably a lot of the time we're
going to be interested in you know
asking questions or using instructions
so stability AI has this nice series
called stable Beluga including a small
7B one and other bigger ones
and these are all based on llama2 but
these have been instruction tuned they
might even have been RL hdf but I can't
remember now
um
so we can create a stable Beluga model
and now something really important
that I keep forgetting everybody keeps
forgetting is
during the instruction tuning process
the instructions that are
passed in actually uh
um
they don't just appear like this they
actually always are in a particular
format and the format Believe It or Not
changes quite a bit from from fine tune
to fine tune and so you have to go to
the web page
for the model
and scroll down to found out
what the prompt format is
so here's the prompt format so I
generally just copy it
and then I paste it into python
which I did here
and
created a function called make prompt
that used the exact same format that it
said to use and so now if I want to say
who is Jeremy Howard I can call Jen
again that was that function I created
up here
and make the correct prompt from that
question
and then it returns back okay so you can
see here
or this prefix this is a system
instruction
this is my question and then the
assistant says Jeremy Howard's an
Australian entrepreneur computer
scientist co-founder of machine learning
and deep Learning Company faster AI okay
so this one's actually all correct so
it's getting better by using an actual
instruction tune model
um
and so we could then start to scale up
so we could use the 13B and in fact uh
we looked briefly at this open Orca data
set earlier so llama2 has been
fine-tuned on Oakman Orca and then also
fine-tuned on another really great data
set called platypus and so the whole
thing together is the open Orca platypus
and then this is going to be the bigger
13B
gptq means it's going to be quantized
so that's got a different format okay a
different prompt format so again we can
scroll down and see what the prompt
format is there it is
okay and so
we can create a function called make
open Orca prompt that has that prompt
format
and so now we can say okay who is Jeremy
Howard and now I've become British which
is kind of true I was born in England
but I moved to Australia
uh professional poker player no
definitely not that uh co-founding
several companies
including first.ai also kaggle okay so
not bad yeah it was acquired by Google
was it 2017 probably something around
there okay so you can see we've got our
own models
giving us some pretty good information
how do we make it even better you know
because it's it's it's still
hallucinating
you know
um
and
you know llama two I think has been
trained with more up-to-date information
than gpt4 it doesn't have the September
2021 cut off
um but it you know it's still
got a knowledge cut off you know we
would like to use the most up-to-date
information we want to use the right
information to answer these questions as
well as possible
so to do this we can use something
called retrieval augmented generation
so what happens with retrieval augmented
generation is
when we take the question we've been
asked like who is Jeremy held and then
we say okay
let's try and search for
documents that may help us answer that
question
so obviously we would expect for example
Wikipedia to be useful and then what we
do is we say okay with that information
let's now see if we can tell
the language model about what we found
and then have it answer the question
so let me show you so let's actually
grab a Wikipedia
python package
we will scrape Wikipedia grabbing the
Jeremy Howard web page
and so here's the start of the Jeremy
Howard Wikipedia page
it has 613 words now generally speaking
these open source models will have a
context length of about two thousand or
four thousand so the context length is
how many tokens Can it handle so that's
fine it'll be able to handle this web
page
and what we're going to do is we're
going to ask it the question so we're
going to have here question and with a
question but before it we're going to
say answer the question with the help of
the context we're going to provide this
to the language model
and we're going to say context and
they're going to have the whole web page
so suddenly now our question is going to
be a lot bigger our prompt
right so our prompt
now contains the entire web page the
whole Wikipedia page
followed by a question
and so now
it says
Jeremy how does an Australian data
scientist Edge entrepreneur an educator
known for his work in deep learning
co-founder of fast AI teaches courses
develops software conducts research used
to be yeah okay it's perfect right so
it's actually done a really good job
like if somebody asked me to send them a
you know 100 word bio
uh that would actually probably be
better than I would have written myself
and you'll see even though I asked for
300 tokens it actually got sent back the
end of stream token and so it knows to
stop at this point
um
well that's all very well but how do we
know to pass in the Jeremy Howard
Wikipedia page
well the way we know which Wikipedia
page to pass in
is that we can use another model to tell
us which web page or which document is
the most useful for answering a question
and the way we do that is we we can use
something called sentence Transformer
and we can use a special kind of model
that specifically designed to take a
document and turn it into a bunch of
activations where
two documents that are similar will have
similar activations
so let me just let me show you what I
mean what I'm going to do is I'm going
to grab just the first paragraph of my
Wikipedia page and I'm going to grab the
first paragraph of Tony Blair's
Wikipedia page
okay so we're pretty different people
right this is just like a really simple
small example and I'm going to then call
this model
so I'm going to say encode and I'm going
to encode my Wikipedia first paragraph
Tony Blair's first paragraph and the
question
which was who is Jeremy Howard
and it's going to pass back
a 384 long vector
of embeddings
for the question
for me and for Tony Blair
and what I can now do is I can calculate
the similarity
between the question and the Jeremy
Howard Wikipedia page
and I can also do it for the question
versus the Tony Blair Wikipedia page and
as you can see it's higher for me and so
that tells you that if you're trying to
figure out what document to use to help
you answer this question better off
using the Jeremy Howard Wikipedia page
than the Tony Blair Wikipedia pitch
foreign
so if you had a few hundred documents
you were thinking of using to give back
to the model as context to help it
answer a question you could literally
just pass them all through to encode go
through each one one at a time and see
which is closest
when you've got thousands or millions of
documents
you can use something called a vector
database where basically as a one-off
thing you go through and you encode all
of your documents
and so in fact
um there's there's lots of pre-built
systems for this
um here's an example of one called H2O
GPT
and this is just something that I've got
um
that I've got running here on my
computer it's just an open source thing
written in Python and sitting here
running on Port 7860 and so I just gone
to localhost 7860
and what I did was I just uploaded I
just clicked upload and I've wrapped
last uploaded a bunch of papers in fact
I might be able to see it better
yeah here we go a bunch of papers
and so you know we could look at
uh
let me search yeah I can so for example
we can look at the ULM fit paper that uh
so bruter and I did and you can see it's
taken the PDF and turned it into
slightly crappily a text format and then
it's created an embedding for each
you know each section
so I could then
um ask it
you know what is ULM fit
and I'll hit enter
and you can see here it's now actually
saying based on the information provided
in the context so it's showing us it's
been given some context what context did
it get so here are the things that it
found
right so it's being sent this context
so this is kind of citations
performance by leveraging the knowledge
and adapting it to the specific task at
hand
um
how
what techniques be more specific
does ULM fit
uh let's see how it goes
okay there we go so here's the three
steps pre-trained fine-tune fine tune
cool
um so you can see it's not bad right
um it's not
amazing like you know the context in
this particular case is pretty small
um and it's and in particular
if you think about how that embedding
thing worked you can't really use like
the normal kind of follow-up so for
example
um
if I so it says fine tuning a classifier
so I could say
what classifier is used now the problem
is that there's no context here being
sent to the embedding model so it's
actually going to have no idea I'm
talking about new lmfit so generally
speaking it's going to do a terrible job
yeah I see it says it's used as a
Roberta model but it's not but if I look
at the sources it's no longer actually
referring to Howard and Rooter
so anyway you can see the basic idea
this is called retrieval augmented
generation Reg
um
and it's a it's a Nifty approach but you
have to do it with with some care
um and so there are lots of these uh
private GPT things out there
um actually the H2O GPT web page does a
fantastic job
of listing lots of them
and comparing
so as you can see if you want to run a
private GPT
there's no shortage of options
and you can have your retrieval
augmented generation I haven't tried
I've only tried this one H2O GPT I don't
love it it's all right
um
good
so finally I want to talk about what's
perhaps the most interesting
option we have which is to do our own
fine tuning and fine tuning is cool
because rather than just retrieving
documents which might have useful
context we can actually change our model
to behave based on the documents that we
have available and I'm going to show you
a really interesting example of fine
tuning here what we're going to do is
we're going to fine tune using this um
no SQL data set
and it's got examples of like a a schema
for a table in a database
a question
and then the answer is
the correct SQL
to solve that question
using that database schema
and so I'm hoping we could use this to
create a
um you know I kind of it could be a hand
to use a handy tool for for business
users where they type some English
question and SQL generated for them
automatically don't know if it actually
work in practice or not but this is just
a little fun idea I thought we'd try out
um I know there's lots of uh
startups and stuff out there trying to
do this more seriously but this is this
is quite cool because it actually got it
working today in just a couple of hours
so what we do is we use the hugging face
data sets library and what that does
just like the hugging face Hub has lots
of models stored on it hacking face data
sets has lots of data sets stored on it
and so instead of using Transformers
which is what we use to grab models we
use data sets and we just pass in the
name of the person and the name of their
repo and it grabs the data set and so we
can take a look at it
and it just has a training set
with features
and so then I can
have a look at the training set so
here's an example
which looks a bit like what we've just
seen
so what we do now is we want to
fine-tune a model now we can do that in
in a notebook from scratch takes I don't
know 100 or so lines of code it's not
too much but given the time constraints
here and also like I thought why not why
don't we just use something that's ready
to go so for example there's something
called Axolotl which is quite nice in my
opinion
here it is here lovely another very nice
open source piece of software and uh
again you can just pip install it
and it's got things like gptq and 16 bit
and so forth ready to go
and so what I did was a
um it basically has a whole bunch of
examples of things that it already knows
how to do
it's got llama 2 examples so I copied
the Llama 2 example and I created a SQL
example so basically just told it this
is the path to the data set that I want
this is the type
um and everything else pretty much I
left the same
and then I just ran this command which
is from there read me accelerate launch
Axolotl passed in my yaml and that took
about an hour
on my GPU
and at the end of the hour
it had created a q Laura out directory Q
stands for quantize that's because I was
creating a smaller quantized model Laura
I'm not going to talk about today but
Laura is a very cool thing that
basically another thing that makes your
models smaller and also handles
I can use bigger models on smaller gpus
for training
um so
uh I trained it
and then I thought okay let's uh create
our own one so we're going to have this
context
and
um
this question
get the count of competition hosts by
theme
and I'm not going to pass it an answer
so I'll just ignore that so again I've
found out what prompt they were using
um and created a SQL prompt function and
so here's what I've got to do use the
following contextual information to
answer the question
context create tables there's the
context question list or competition
host sorted in ascending order
and then I
tokenized that chord generate
and
the answer was select count hosts kind
of theme from Farm competition Group by
theme that is correct
so I think that's pretty remarkable we
have just built it also took me like an
hour to figure out how to do it and then
an hour to actually do the training
um and at the end of that we've actually
got something which which is converting
um
Pros into SQL based on a schema so I
think that's that's a really exciting
idea
um the only other thing I do want to
briefly mention is
um is doing stuff on Macs if you've got
a Mac uh you there's a couple of really
good options the options are mlc and
lima.cpp currently mlc in particular I
think it's kind of underappreciated it's
a
you know really nice
project
um
uh where you can run language models on
literally iPhone Android web browsers
everything
it's really cool
and
and so I'm now actually on my Mac here
and I've got a
tiny little Python program called chat
and it's going to import chat module and
it's going to import a
discretized
7B
and that's going to ask the question
what is the meaning of life
so let's try it
python chat.pi again I just installed
this
earlier today I haven't done that much
stuff on Max before but I was pretty
impressed to see
that it is
doing a good job here what is the
meaning of life is complex and
philosophical
some people might find meaning in their
relationships with others
their impact in the world et cetera et
cetera okay and it's doing
9.6 tokens per second
so there you go so there is running
um a model on a Mac and then another
option that you've probably heard about
is llama.cpp
llama.cpp runs on lots of different
things as well including Max and also on
Cuda
it uses a different format called gguf
and you can again you can use it from
python even if it was a CPP thing it's
got a python wrapper so you can just
download
again from hugging face at gguf
file
so you can just go through and there's
lots of different ones they're all
documented as to what's what you can
pick how big a file you want you can
download it and then you just say Okay
llama model path equals pass in that
gguf file
it spits out lots and lots and lots of
gunk
and then you can say okay so if I called
that llm you can then say llm question
name the planets of the solar system 32
tokens
and
there we are right in Pluto no longer
considered a planet two mercury three
Venus poor Earth Mars six oh never run
out of tokens so again you know it's um
just to show you here there are all
these different options
um
uh you know I would say you know if
you've got a
Nvidia graphics card and your reasonably
capable python programmer you'd probably
be one of you use Pi torch and the
hugging face ecosystem
um but you know I think you know these
things might change over time as well
and certainly a lot of stuff is coming
into llama pretty quickly now when it's
developing very fast
as you can see
there's a lot of stuff that you can do
right now with language models
um particularly if you if you're pretty
comfortable as a python programmer
I think it's a really exciting time to
get involved in some ways it's a
frustrating time to get involved because
um
you know it's very early
and a lot of stuff has weird little edge
cases and It's tricky to install and
stuff like that
um
there's a lot of great Discord channels
however first AI have our own Discord
channel so feel free to just Google for
fast AI Discord and drop in we've got a
channel called generative you feel free
to ask any questions or
tell us about what you're finding
um yeah it's definitely something where
you want to be getting help from other
people on this journey because it is
very early days and
you know people are still figuring
things out as we go but I think it's an
exciting time to be doing this stuff and
I'm yeah I'm really enjoying it and I
hope that this has given some of you a
useful starting point on your own
Journey so I hope you found this useful
thanks for listening bye